---
layout: post
title: PhD and me
image: /image/download.jpeg
---

The title of this blog is inspired by my favorite film *Marley and me*. Back to the blog, obviously it is not about 
sharing knowledge. But don't be angry at me, it is still about the way I will become a data scientist. I will tell to 
all of you about my story with PhD. Hope you all enjoy this (I know that there is no one but me read it but never-mind :d)

Today, I just miss another PhD offer that I thought it was very close to me. I know this position thanks to a former 
colleague who now is a post-doc in ENAC(Toulouse, France). I have a strong reference and (which I think) strong CV. 
Furthermore, it is also in the middle of the semester, so I believe there is not much competitiveness. But in the end, 
it is still out of my reach.

As you both know that I earned a Master scholarship to study in France. Back then, I was inspired by Mr.Quy, he, just 
like me, earned a scholarship after 4 years in university, then he got a internship in a company and then, did an 
industrial thesis there. He now has double nationality, a well-being life. Me, I wanted to follow his way. I set my 
target of getting an internship in CEA, a well-known research organization in France and I achieved that. However, 
the way after this is somehow out of control. My application for PhD position is too bitter. They turned down every 
application of mine until a canadian professor accepted my application. I was very happy back then not knowing it is in 
fact a scam. Since I got accepted, I just barely prepared for the other applications so that I missed it.

After going back to Vietnam, I contacted canadian professor and told him I would stay in Vietnam for a while to prepare 
the visa and do a temporary job just to discover more about my career. 3 months after, I contacted him by email and he 
told me he was gonna retire so he couldn't keep his promise for me to conduct PhD research.(!!!)
I comforted myself that I was more fit for a life of engineer than a researcher and life in Vietnam is not so bad. In 
fact, it truly is. It just that I miss so much european vibe there. Miss my weekend, miss the sunset there and also 
miss the board game Catan. But life is moving on, I bury these emotions to live a happy life here. But they resurface 
when Mr.Dat told me that he could get me a PhD slot in his school: the money is well-paid, the topic is interesting. 
I sent my CV with that hope not knowing that I would will miss it again.

Life is hard I know and now I will have to rearrange my plan again, maybe my life doesn't work that way. I will 
definitely strike back, try my best. But today, I allow myself to be depressed. It is simply necessary for the next step 
of my life.

_Stumble and fall, is the heart of it all_

_When you fall down, just try again_